DOCS-7837 4.3 type-system-editorial-kt (#1345)
mulesoft/docs-mule-runtime-3: modules/ROOT/edits/dataweave-type-system.adoc

= Type System
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

DataWeave 2.0 supports a type system. To take advantage of the type checking that the type system executes, you need to provide constraint expressions for variables and functions described in this section. For information on how values for these types are defined, refer to xref:dataweave-types.adoc[Value Constructs for Types].

> A type system defines a set of constraints to a set of constructs such as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A type system defines a set of constraints to a set of constructs, such as:
```

* Variables
* Function parameters

> These constraints are used in the type checking phase where DataWeave ensures that the values assigned

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These constraints are used in the type checking phase, when DataWeave ensures that the values assigned
```

> to variables or the arguments for a function call respects its constraints. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to variables or the arguments for a function call respect its constraints. For example:
```

.DataWeave Script
----
%dw 2.0
import * from dw::core::Strings
output application/json

var userName: String = "John"
----

> The variable definition for `userName` has the constraint of assigning a value of type String.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The variable definition for `userName` has the constraint of assigning a value of type `String`.
```

> If some other type value is assigned, a type checking error is raised.

Reviewer: try to avoid passive tense, but it's ok to leave as-is for now. Maybe Kim will have ideas.

.DataWeave Script
----
%dw 2.0
import * from dw::core::Strings
output application/json

fun toUser(id: Number, userName: String): String = "you called the function toUser!"
----

> The constraints to call the function `toUser` are that the first argument has to be of type Number, the second one of type String (or to be coercible to those types). Another constraint here is that the result of the function has to be of type String (this constraint isn't used in the call for `toUser`, it's applied to its definition to validate that the function body generates the proper type).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The constraints to call the function `toUser` are that the first argument has to be of type `Number`, the second one of type `String` (to be coercible to those types). Another constraint is that the result of the function has to be of type `String` (this constraint isn't used in the call for `toUser`; it's applied to its definition to validate that the function body generates the proper type).
```

----
toUser(123, "John")
toUser("123", true)
----

> Though you would expect the second call to fail, autocoercions allow it to be successful and both of them work. In the case of the second function call, there is an autocoercion of the String `"123"` to the Number value `123`, and the Boolean `true` to the String value `"true"` to being able to call the function. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Though you might expect the second call to fail, autocoercion enables the call to be successful, and both calls work. In the case of the second function call, there is an autocoercion of the `String` value `"123"` to the `Number` value `123`, and the `Boolean` value `true` to the `String` value `"true"`, which makes it possible to call the function. +
```

> An example of a call that throws a type checking error is `toUser("a 12", "John")` because the String `"a 12"` isn't coercible to a Number. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An example of a call that throws a type checking error is `toUser("a 12", "John")` because the String `"a 12"` isn't coercible to a `Number` type. +
```

DataWeave also uses a global type inference algorithm to validate your code even if no types are specified as
constraints.

[NOTE]

>  The use of constraints is optional but it can be useful in big scripts or multiple scripts where the type system could help you avoid bugs in your DataWeave logic by running the type checking algorithm.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 The use of constraints is optional, but constraints can be useful in big scripts or multiple scripts. The type system can help you avoid bugs in your DataWeave logic because it causes the type-checking algorithm to run.
```

Reviewer: Not 100% sure about "because it causes..." part. Pls verify.

The types supported by the DataWeave type system are divided into three categories:

* Simple Types
* Composite Types
* Complex Types

== Simple Types

> Simple types represent values such as string, Booleans, etc. These values are atomic, they are not composed by other values. These are the simple types:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Simple types represent values such as strings, Booleans, and so on. These values are atomic; they are not composed of other values. These are the simple types:
```

> * String

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `String`
```

> * Boolean

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `Boolean`
```

> * Number

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `Number`
```

> * Regex

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `Regex`
```

> * Null

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `Null`
```

> * Temporal: Date, DateTime, LocalDateTime, LocalTime, Time, Period

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Temporal: `Date`, `DateTime`, `LocalDateTime`, `LocalTime`, `Time`, `Period`
```

//Key, KeyValuePairType, NameType, NameValuePairType, NamespaceType, RangeType , ReferenceType, TypeParameter, TypeType, UriType

=== Null

> Null is a type of only one value, the value `null`, which means that this value `null` cannot be assigned to the type String or any other type except for the type Null.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Null` is a type of only one value, the value `null`, which means that `null` cannot be assigned to the type `String` or any other type except for the type `Null`.
```

> For example, the repeat function in the String Module has the signature `repeat(String, Number): String`, which means that it only accepts as a first parameter a value of type String, and as a second parameter a value of type Number. The function returns a value of type String.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the `repeat` function in the String module has the signature `repeat(String, Number): String`, which means that the function only accepts as a first parameter a value of type `String`, and as a second parameter a value of type `Number.` The function returns a value of type `String`.
```

.DataWeave Script
----
%dw 2.0
import * from dw::core::Strings
output application/json
---
repeat("a", 3)
----

> This returns `&quot;aaa&quot;`, but:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following script returns `&quot;aaa&quot;`:
```

.DataWeave Script
----
%dw 2.0
import * from dw::core::Strings
output application/json
---
repeat(null, 3)
----

> Throws an error because the value `null` cannot be assigned to the parameter that expects a value of type String.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, the following script throws an error because the value `null` cannot be assigned to the parameter that expects a value of type `String`.
```

.DataWeave Script
----
%dw 2.0
import * from dw::core::Strings
output application/json
---
repeat(Null, 3)
----

> In this case we are assigning to the first parameter a value that is the type Null (the type of this value

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The script assigns to the first parameter a value that is the type `Null` (the type of this value
```

> is `Type&lt;Null&gt;`), and returns `&quot;NullNullNull&quot;` because there is an autocoercion that coerces the value to be of type String (`&quot;Null&quot;`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is `Type&lt;Null&gt;`), and it returns `&quot;NullNullNull&quot;` because there is an autocoercion that coerces the value to the type `String` (`&quot;Null&quot;`).
```

> Some other functions may have an overloaded signature for the function (the function has multiples definitions for different parameters types) that let it be called with `null`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some other functions have an overloaded signature for the function (the function has multiples definitions for different parameter types) that let you call it with `null`.
```

> For example, the `isNumeric` function from dw::core::Strings has the signature `isNumeric(String): Boolean` (receives a string and returns if that string is numeric) but it is also defined as `isNumeric(Null): Boolean`. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the `isNumeric` function from `dw::core::Strings` has the signature `isNumeric(String): Boolean` (receives a string and successfully returns a result if that string is numeric), but the function is also defined as `isNumeric(Null): Boolean`. +
```

> So if you call the function `isNumeric` with a null (`isNumeric(null)`) this does not throw an exception. At runtime, the function dispatching algorithm selects the correct function based on the actual types of the values used. The function returns false because of the definition of `isNumeric` for null as the argument.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So, if you call the function `isNumeric` with `null` (`isNumeric(null)`), the function does not throw an exception. At runtime, the function that is dispatching algorithm selects the correct function based on the types of the values you use. The function returns `false` because of the definition of `isNumeric` for `null` as the argument.
```

== Composite Types

> Composite types contains other values inside it. These composite types are Array, Object and Function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A composite types contains other values. The composite types are `Array`, `Object` and `Function`.
```

=== Array Type

> An Array is of type `Array&lt;T&gt;` where `T` is a type parameter that defines the type of the elements inside the Array. For example, the syntax to define a variable with the type Array of `Number` is:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An  array is of the type `Array&lt;T&gt;` in which `T` is a type parameter that defines the type of the elements inside the array. For example, the syntax to define a variable with the type `Array` of `Number` is:
```

----
var idsList: Array<Number> = [1, 22, 333, 4444]
----

> The variable `idsList` only passes the type checking phase when the array assigned to it only contains Numbers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The variable `idsList` only passes the type-checking phase when the array that is assigned to it only contains values of the `Number` type.
```

=== Object Type

> In order to define an object type there are two ways, either `Object` or `{}`, they both define an open object and don't specify any constraint to their key value pairs. Open and close objects are later defined in this section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can define an `Object` type in two ways: `Object` or `{}` both define an open object and don't specify any constraint to their key-value pairs. See also, <<close_open_objects>>.
```

Reviewer: added internal link to anchored section. anchor added to that section below.

> The syntax to define an object type with a set of constraints for its key value pairs, is very similar to defining an object value:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The syntax to define an `Object` type with a set of constraints for its key-value pairs is very similar to defining a value of an `Object` type:
```

----
{
    keyName @(attrName: AttrType): valueType,
    ...
}
----

> For example, to define a user type with `firstName` String, `lastName` String and `age` Number, the syntax is:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, to define a `User` type with `firstName` `String`, `lastName` `String `and `age` `Number`, the syntax is:
```

.DataWeave Script
----
%dw 2.0
output application/json

type User = {
    firstName: String,
    lastName: String,
    age: Number
}
----

> You can apply some modifiers to each key value pair to determine if a field is always present or if the field can be repeated or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can apply some modifiers to each key-value pair to determine if a field is always present or if the field can be repeated.
```

> For repeated fields use `*`. For example, the following type allows to have multiple `lastName` fields:

Reviewer: I think you might need to use HTML code for the asterisk (. `&#42;`). It might not show up in the built HTML otherwise.

> For repeated fields use `*`. For example, the following type allows to have multiple `lastName` fields:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For repeated fields use `&#42;`. For example, the following type allows you to have multiple `lastName` fields:
```

.DataWeave Script
----
%dw 2.0
output application/json

{
    firstName: String,
    lastName*: String,
    age: Number
}
----

> For conditional fields use `?`. For example, the following type allows the age field to be present or not:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For conditional fields, use `?`. For example, the following type allows the age field to be present or not:
```

.DataWeave Script
----
%dw 2.0
output application/json

{
    firstName: String,
    lastName*: String,
    age?: Number
}
----

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

[[close_open_objects]]
```

Reviewer: adding anchor so you can link to it from above.

==== Close and Open Objects

> Close object means that the type only accepts an object value if there are no additional fields in the object,

Reviewer: "Close object means that" sounds strange. Is that correct? Could it be reworded? Do we mean "A closed object only accepts ... "? Asking bc I'm not seeing the phrase "close object" in a quick google search anyway.

> just those key values specified by the type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
just those key-value pairs specified by the type.
```

> Open object only put constraints on the fields that are declared in the type, and if they are all verified, then the type accepts the value. The type accepts objects that have other fields apart of the ones mentioned in the declaration. All object types are open unless specified.

Reviewer: Same question about rewording "Open object only put constraints on ..." Could it be "An open object only puts constraints on..."

Reviewer: also need to say what "they" refers to in the phrase "if they are all verified" explain what is verified.

Reviewer: and "object types" -> "`Object` types"

The following example works even if `age` is not mentioned in the type declaration because the type of the variable `user` is an open object:

.DataWeave Script
----
%dw 2.0
output application/json

var user: {firstName: String, lastName: String} = {firstName: "John", lastName: "Smith", age: 34}
----

> The syntax to specify a close object is `{| |}`. The following example, makes our user type only support the keys `firstName` and `lastName`, so this throws an exception because the `age` field is not accepted.

Reviewer: "close object" -> "closed object"?

> The syntax to specify a close object is `{| |}`. The following example, makes our user type only support the keys `firstName` and `lastName`, so this throws an exception because the `age` field is not accepted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The syntax to specify a closed object is `{| |}`. The following example makes the `User` type support only the keys `firstName` and `lastName`. The script throws an exception because the `age` field is not accepted.
```

.DataWeave Script
----
%dw 2.0
output application/json

var user: {|firstName: String, lastName: String|} = {name: "John", lastName: "Smith", age: 34}
----

=== Function Type

> DataWeave is a functional language and functions are a first class citizen which means that functions are values

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DataWeave is a functional language, and functions are first class citizens, which means that functions are values,
```

Reviewer: not sure if it's too jargony to use "first class citizens" here

and values have an associated type.

The syntax to define a function type is:

----
(paramType: ParamType,...) -> ReturnType
----

> For example, if you want to define in a constraint a function type that has a parameter of type String, a second parameter of type Number and return a Boolean, the correct syntax is:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if you want to define in a constraint a `Function` type that has a parameter of type `String`, a second parameter of type `Number`, and a `Boolean` return value, the correct syntax is:
```

----
(paramA: String, paramB: Number) -> Boolean
----

> For example, you could define a function that receives another function as an argument:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, you can define a function that receives another function as an argument:
```

.DataWeave Script
----
%dw 2.0
output application/json

fun applyIDsChange(ids: Array<Number>, changeTo: (Number) -> Number): Array<Number> = ???
----

> If we call the function `applyIDsChange` with some function that does not match the `changeTo` constraint `(Number) -> Number`, DataWeave throws a type checking error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you call the function `applyIDsChange` with a function that does not match the `changeTo` constraint `(Number) -> Number`, DataWeave throws a type-checking error.
```

> For example, the following call works because `abs` is a function that takes a Number and returns a Number, which matches the `changeTo` parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the following call works because `abs` is a function that takes a value of the `Number` type and returns a `Number`, which matches the `changeTo` parameter.
```

> ----

Reviewer: ALL the scripts (above, here, and below) need the required DW header directives.

applyIDsChange([1,-6, 3, -8], abs)
----

> But this call fails because `sum` is a function that takes an Array and returns a Number, so it does not match our parameter constraint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following call fails because `sum` is a function that takes an `Array` value and returns a `Number` value, so it does not match the parameter constraint.
```

----
applyIDsChange([1,-6, 3, -8], sum)
----

== Complex Types

> 

Reviewer: Need to add a short introductory sentence for == Complex Types

=== Any and Nothing

> In some cases you can not enforce a restriction as it accepts all the values. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In some cases, you cannot enforce a restriction because the type accepts all the values. +
```

* `Any` type accepts all possible values.

> * `Nothing` type accepts no value but it can be assigned to all the types. This type is not frequently used explicitly but it is by the type inference algorithm.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `Nothing` type accepts no value, but it can be assigned to all the types. This type is not frequently used explicitly, but it is used by the type inference algorithm.
```

=== Union Type

> Union type is used to compose types. The syntax to define a union type is:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Union` type is used to compose types. The syntax to define a `Union` type is:
```

----
TypeA | TypeB | ...
----

> The following example defines a variable with a constraint that accepts a value of type String or Number:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example defines a variable with a constraint that accepts a value of type `String` or `Number`:
```

----
var age: String | Number = if (payload.allStrings) "32" else 32
----

> A common pattern is to use Null with a union type to specify that a type accepts null as a value. In the following example, the variable `a` accepts that the expression `payload.foo` returns `null`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A common pattern is to use `Null` type with a `Union` type to specify that a type accepts `null` as a value. In the following example, the variable `a` allows the expression `payload.foo` to return `null`.
```

----
var a: String| Null = payload.foo
----

=== Intersection Type

> The intersection type intersects object types. In this case, the intersection works as the concatenation (`++`) of object types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Intersection` type intersects `Object` types. In this case, the intersection works as the concatenation (`++`) of object types.
```

Reviewer: I'm curious why it says it concatenates (++) when it seems to use the logical AND operator (&), which is the opposite of Union, which uses the logical OR (|).  Just curious.

_Introduced in DataWeave 2.3.0. Supported by Mule 4.3 and later._

> The syntax for intersection type is:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The syntax for `Intersection` type is:
```

----
TypeA & TypeB & ...
----

> In the following example, the intersection concatenates the two object types resulting in the type `{name: String, lastName: String}` This is an open object so it can have more key value pairs. The variable accepts the value assigned to it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, the `Intersection` concatenates the two `Object` types, resulting in the type `{name: String, lastName: String}`. The type is an open object that can have more key-value pairs. The variable accepts the value assigned to it:
```

----
var a: {name: String} & {lastName: String} = {name: "John", lastName: "Smith", age: 34}
----

> In the case of close objects, it returns the concatenation of the object types but resulting in a close object. +

Reviewer: "close objects" -> "closed objects" 

say what "it" refers to in "it returns"

"but resulting ... " -> "but results in a closed object."  ?

> In the following example, the intersection results in the type `{|name: String, lastName: String|}`. This throws

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, the intersection results in the type `{|name: String, lastName: String|}`, which throws
```

> an exception because a close object does not accept an object value if there are additional fields in the object (field `age`):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
an exception because a closed object does not accept an `Object` value if there are additional fields in the object (field `age`):
```

----
var a: {|name: String|} & {|lastName: String|} = {name: "John", lastName: "Smith", age: 34}
----

[[literal-types]]
=== Literal Types

A literal type represents exactly one value. For example, the String value `"foo"` can be represented with the type `"foo"`.

_Introduced in DataWeave 2.3.0. Supported by Mule 4.3 and later._

The following literal types have been added to the type system:

> * String literal types

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `String` literal types
```

> * Number literal types

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `Number` literal types
```

> * Boolean literal types

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `Boolean` literal types
```

> You can use literal types with union types when you want to declare a type as a finite set of allowed values. For example, the following types declarations are aliases of union and literals types:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use literal types with `Union` types to declare a type as a finite set of allowed values. For example, the following type declarations are aliases of `Union` and literal types:
```

----
type Weekdays = "Monday" | "Tuesday" | "Wednesday" | "Thursday" | "Friday"
type Days = Weekdays | "Saturday" | "Sunday"
----

> In the following example, the variable only accepts a value of these specific literal types (`404` and `500`). The type system ensures that the variable is one of those literal values:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, the variable only accepts a value of the literal types `404` and `500`. The type system ensures that the variable is one of those literal values:
```

.DataWeave Script
----
%dw 2.0
output application/json

var errorStatusCode: 404 | 500 = payload.statusCode
----

> With function overloading you are able to define different behaviors based on the input argument value:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Function overloading enables you to define different behaviors based on the input argument's value:
```

.DataWeave Script
----
%dw 2.0
import * from dw::core::Strings
output application/json

fun errorHandling(errorCode: 404 | 405, response): String = "Code for error 4XX handling here!"
fun errorHandling(errorCode: 500 | 501, response): String = "Code for error 5XX handling here!"
---
errorHandling(payload.statusCode, payload)
----

> At runtime, the function dispatching algorithm selects the correct function based on the actual type of the value of `payload.statusCode`. It is not necessary to check the value of an argument with an if statement to change the behaviour of the function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At runtime, the function-dispatching algorithm selects the correct function based on the type of the value of `payload.statusCode`. It is not necessary to check the value of an argument with an `if` statement to change the behavior of the function.
```

= Type System
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

> DataWeave 2.0 supports a type system. To take advantage of the type checking that the type system executes, you need to provide constraint expressions for variables and functions described in this section. For information on how values for these types are defined, refer to xref:dataweave-types.adoc[Value Constructs for Types].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
DataWeave 2.0 supports a type system. To take advantage of the type checking that the type system executes, you must provide constraint expressions for variables and functions described in this section. For information about how values for these types are defined, refer to xref:dataweave-types.adoc[Value Constructs for Types].
```

> A type system defines a set of constraints to a set of constructs, such as:

Reviewer 2: Are variables and function parameters constraints or constructs?
If they are constraints, reword to...:
```suggestion
A type system defines a set of constraints, such as variables or function parameters, to a set of constructs.
```
Otherwise, consider moving the list items into the narrative anyway, since there are only two of them?
```suggestion
A type system defines a set of constraints to a set of constructs, such as variables or function parameters.
```

Reviewer: the constraints are on the constructs

the constructs are the variables or function parameters

* Variables
* Function parameters

> 

Reviewer 2: see above

> These constraints are used in the type checking phase, when DataWeave ensures that the values assigned

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These constraints are used in the type-checking phase, when DataWeave ensures that the values assigned
```

> to variables or the arguments for a function call respect its constraints. For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to variables or the arguments for a function call respect its constraints, for example:
```

.DataWeave Script
----
%dw 2.0
import * from dw::core::Strings
output application/json

var userName: String = "John"
----

The variable definition for `userName` has the constraint of assigning a value of type `String`.

> If some other type value is assigned, a type checking error is raised.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If some other value type is assigned, a type-checking error is raised.
```

.DataWeave Script
----
%dw 2.0
import * from dw::core::Strings
output application/json

fun toUser(id: Number, userName: String): String = "you called the function toUser!"
----

> The constraints to call the function `toUser` are that the first argument has to be of type `Number`, the second one of type `String` (to be coercible to those types). Another constraint is that the result of the function has to be of type `String` (this constraint isn't used in the call for `toUser`; it's applied to its definition to validate that the function body generates the proper type).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The constraints to calling the function `toUser` are that the first argument has to be of type `Number` and the second of type `String` (to be coercible to those types). Another constraint is that the result of the function has to be of type `String`. This constraint isn't used in the call for `toUser`; it's applied to its definition to validate that the function body generates the proper type.
```

----
toUser(123, "John")
toUser("123", true)
----

> Though you might expect the second call to fail, autocoercion enables the call to be successful, and both calls work. In the case of the second function call, there is an autocoercion of the `String` value `"123"` to the `Number` value `123`, and the `Boolean` value `true` to the `String` value `"true"`, which makes it possible to call the function. +

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Although you might expect the second call to fail, autocoercion enables the call to be successful, and both calls work. In the case of the second function call, there is autocoercion of the `String` value `"123"` to the `Number` value `123`, and the `Boolean` value `true` to the `String` value `"true"`, which makes it possible to call the function. +
```

> An example of a call that throws a type checking error is `toUser("a 12", "John")` because the String `"a 12"` isn't coercible to a `Number` type. +

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An example of a call that throws a type-checking error is `toUser("a 12", "John")`, because the String value `"a 12"` isn't coercible to a `Number` type. +
```

DataWeave also uses a global type inference algorithm to validate your code even if no types are specified as
constraints.

[NOTE]

>  The use of constraints is optional, but constraints can be useful in big scripts or multiple scripts. The type system can help you avoid bugs in your DataWeave logic because it causes the type-checking algorithm to run.

Reviewer 2: I wonder if this should be included earlier, when we first start explaining constraints?
Also, just a suggestion:
```suggestion
Although the use of constraints is optional, they can be useful in big scripts or multiple scripts. The type system helps you to avoid bugs in your DataWeave logic because it causes the type-checking algorithm to run.
```

The types supported by the DataWeave type system are divided into three categories:

> * Simple Types

Reviewer 2: In this list, lowercase each use of "types."

* Composite Types
* Complex Types

== Simple Types

Simple types represent values such as strings, Booleans, and so on. These values are atomic; they are not composed of other values. These are the simple types:

* `String`
* `Boolean`
* `Number`
* `Regex`
* `Null`
* Temporal: `Date`, `DateTime`, `LocalDateTime`, `LocalTime`, `Time`, `Period`
//Key, KeyValuePairType, NameType, NameValuePairType, NamespaceType, RangeType , ReferenceType, TypeParameter, TypeType, UriType

> === Null

Reviewer 2: I wish this weren't a solitary subtopic, but I can see that it is important and actually larger than its container.
You could call the container "Simple Types, Including Null," but that's not the best solution.
One other idea is maybe calling it out a bit more, with "Use of the Simple Type Null"?

> `Null` is a type of only one value, the value `null`, which means that `null` cannot be assigned to the type `String` or any other type except for the type `Null`.

Reviewer 2: Suggest something like...:

The simple type `Null`<requires some special consideration? why describe only this type?>. The `Null` type has only one value, `null`, and 'null` cannot be the value of any other type, whether simple, composite, or complex.

Is this correct? 
I am suggesting that we mention why we describe only `Null` as a simple type, and how having this one value is different from being "atomic," like all the others...if that is true?

> For example, the `repeat` function in the String module has the signature `repeat(String, Number): String`, which means that the function only accepts as a first parameter a value of type `String`, and as a second parameter a value of type `Number.` The function returns a value of type `String`.

Reviewer 2: How is this an example of the use of `Null`? Are we back to the container topic of simple types? Then what's up with the subhead for `Null`?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, the `repeat` function in the String module has the signature `repeat(String, Number): String`, which means that the function accepts as a first parameter only a value of type `String`, and as a second parameter only a value of type `Number.` The function returns a value of type `String`:
```

.DataWeave Script
----
%dw 2.0
import * from dw::core::Strings
output application/json
---
repeat("a", 3)
----

> This returns `&quot;aaa&quot;`, but:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This example returns `&quot;aaa&quot;`, but the following example throws an error because the value `null` cannot be assigned to the parameter that expects a value of type `String`:
```

.DataWeave Script
----
%dw 2.0
import * from dw::core::Strings
output application/json
---
repeat(null, 3)
----

> Throws an error because the value `null` cannot be assigned to the parameter that expects a value of type String.

Reviewer 2: See above. 
If this text is about the example above it, where is the introduction to the following example?

.DataWeave Script
----
%dw 2.0
import * from dw::core::Strings
output application/json
---
repeat(Null, 3)
----

> The script assigns to the first parameter a value that is the type `Null` (the type of this value

Reviewer 2: Consider moving to preceded the example that it describes.
```suggestion
In the following example, the script assigns to the first parameter a value that is the type `Null` (the type of this value
```

> is `Type&lt;Null&gt;`), and it returns `&quot;NullNullNull&quot;` because there is an autocoercion that coerces the value to the type `String` (`&quot;Null&quot;`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
is `Type&lt;Null&gt;`). It returns `&quot;NullNullNull&quot;` because autocoercion coerces the value to the type `String` (`&quot;Null&quot;`):
```
move example to follow

> Some other functions have an overloaded signature for the function (the function has multiples definitions for different parameter types) that let you call it with `null`.

Reviewer 2: Is this still correct?
```suggestion
Some functions have an overloaded signature (the function has multiple definitions for different parameter types) that let you call it with `null`.
```
Do you call with `null` or `Null`? All this type vs. value is starting to cloud my mind....

> For example, the `isNumeric` function from `dw::core::Strings` has the signature `isNumeric(String): Boolean` (receives a string and successfully returns a result if that string is numeric), but the function is also defined as `isNumeric(Null): Boolean`. +

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, the `isNumeric` function from `dw::core::Strings` has the signature `isNumeric(String): Boolean`, which receives a string and successfully returns a result if that string is numeric, but the function is also defined as `isNumeric(Null): Boolean`. +
```

> So, if you call the function `isNumeric` with `null` (`isNumeric(null)`), the function does not throw an exception. At runtime, the function that is dispatching algorithm selects the correct function based on the types of the values you use. The function returns `false` because of the definition of `isNumeric` for `null` as the argument.

Reviewer 2: Something sounds weird around "the function that is dispatching algorithm selects the correct function":
"the function...selects the function"? 
And re. "dispatching": is this being used as a verb (the function that is dispatching..." or as an adjective (the function that is the dispatching algorithm..."?
Please reread and verify.

== Composite Types

> A composite types contains other values. The composite types are `Array`, `Object` and `Function`.

Reviewer 2: It contains values other than what?
Do we mean that it contains more than one value?
Or do we mean that it contains values other than `null`?
Also...:
```suggestion
A composite type contains other values. The composite types are `Array`, `Object`, and `Function`.
```

=== Array Type

> An  array is of the type `Array&lt;T&gt;` in which `T` is a type parameter that defines the type of the elements inside the array. For example, the syntax to define a variable with the type `Array` of `Number` is:

Reviewer 2: Some of the wording sounds confusing to me: An array type is a member of the category composite type, but is also "of the type `Array&lt;T&gt;`? So...what actually is a "type"? Is it all of 1. category, 2. member, and 3. specific syntax?
Would this still be correct:
```suggestion
The `Array` composite type uses the syntax `Array&lt;T&gt;`, in which `T` is a type parameter that defines the types of the elements inside the array. For example, the syntax to define a variable with the type `Array` of `Number` is:
```

----
var idsList: Array<Number> = [1, 22, 333, 4444]
----

> The variable `idsList` only passes the type-checking phase when the array that is assigned to it only contains values of the `Number` type.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The variable `idsList` passes the type-checking phase only when the array that is assigned to it contains values of only the `Number` type.
```

Reviewer 2: BREAK here to send partial review

Reviewer 2: Resume

=== Object Type

> You can define an `Object` type in two ways: `Object` or `{}` both define an open object and don't specify any constraint to their key-value pairs. See also, <<close_open_objects>>.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can define an `Object` type in two ways: `Object` or `{}`. Both define an open object and don't specify any constraint to their key-value pairs. See also <<close_open_objects>>.
```

> The syntax to define an `Object` type with a set of constraints for its key-value pairs is very similar to defining a value of an `Object` type:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The syntax for defining an `Object` type with a set of constraints for its key-value pairs is very similar to the syntax for defining the value of an `Object` type:
```

----
{
    keyName @(attrName: AttrType): valueType,
    ...
}
----

> For example, to define a `User` type with `firstName` `String`, `lastName` `String `and `age` `Number`, the syntax is:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, the syntax to define a `User` type with `firstName` `String`, `lastName` `String `, and `age` `Number` is:
```

.DataWeave Script
----
%dw 2.0
output application/json

type User = {
    firstName: String,
    lastName: String,
    age: Number
}
----

> You can apply some modifiers to each key-value pair to determine if a field is always present or if the field can be repeated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can apply modifiers to each key-value pair to specify when a field is always present or when a field can be repeated.
```
This intro mentions always present and repeated but not conditional, and we illustrate only repeated and conditional. Please verify?
Also, consider an intro like this:
```suggestion
You can apply modifiers to each key-value pair to specify:
* A field that is always present (`<value>`)
* A field that can be repeated (`&#42;`)
* A field that is conditional (`?`)
```

Reviewer 2: Is `&#42;` supposed to be `*`?

Reviewer 2: Looking at the examples, I think what we really want to say is 
```suggestion
You can apply modifiers to key-value pairs that specify fields that can be repeated (`*`) or fields that are optional (`?`).
```

> For repeated fields use `&#42;`. For example, the following type allows you to have multiple `lastName` fields:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, the following type enables you to specify multiple `lastName` fields:
```

.DataWeave Script
----
%dw 2.0
output application/json

{
    firstName: String,
    lastName*: String,
    age: Number
}
----

> For conditional fields, use `?`. For example, the following type allows the age field to be present or not:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following type enables you to either include the `age` field or not:
```

.DataWeave Script
----
%dw 2.0
output application/json

{
    firstName: String,
    lastName*: String,
    age?: Number
}
----

[[close_open_objects]]

> ==== Close and Open Objects

Reviewer 2: solitary subtopic?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Object` type objects can be either closed or open. A _closed_ object accepts an object value only if there are no fields except the key-value pairs specified by the type.
```

A closed object means that the type only accepts an object value if there are no additional fields in the object,

> just those key-value pairs specified by the type.

Reviewer 2: Replace per above

> An open object only put constraints on the fields that are declared in the type, and if they are all verified, then the type accepts the value. The type accepts objects that have other fields apart of the ones mentioned in the declaration. All object types are open unless specified.

Reviewer 2: I tried to guess what the previous paragraph means, but I wonder if the original text might use "type" or "object" when meaning the other? Please reread the text.
```suggestion
An _open_ object constrains only the fields that are declared in the type, although the type accepts objects that have fields not included in the declaration. All object types are open unless specified.
```
I also wonder if, since all objects are open unless specifically closed, we should start this topic rather with text something like
`Object` type objects are by default open, but they can be closed.
An _open_ object type <is this....>
A _closed_ object type <is that....>

Reviewer 2: Please review GLOBALLY for proper distinction between the `Object` type and an object.

> The following example works even if `age` is not mentioned in the type declaration because the type of the variable `user` is an open object:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example succeeds even if `age` is not in the type declaration because the type of the variable `user` is an open object:
```
Keep this example with the definition of open object.

.DataWeave Script
----
%dw 2.0
output application/json

var user: {firstName: String, lastName: String} = {firstName: "John", lastName: "Smith", age: 34}
----

> The syntax to specify a closed object is `{| |}`. The following example makes the `User` type support only the keys `firstName` and `lastName`. The script throws an exception because the `age` field is not accepted.

Reviewer 2: Move this example to follow the definition of a closed object.

.DataWeave Script
----
%dw 2.0
output application/json

var user: {|firstName: String, lastName: String|} = {name: "John", lastName: "Smith", age: 34}
----

=== Function Type

> DataWeave is a functional language, and functions are first class citizens, which means that functions are values,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
DataWeave is a functional language, and functions are considered first-class citizens, which means that functions are values with associated types
```
Is "first-class citizen" actually a technical term in this context?
How does having a value with an associated type make a function superior to something else (and what is that something else)?
Please check with writing team; I am not familiar with this concept.

> and values have an associated type.

Reviewer 2: see above

The syntax to define a function type is:

----
(paramType: ParamType,...) -> ReturnType
----

For example, if you want to define in a constraint a `Function` type that has a parameter of type `String`, a second parameter of type `Number`, and a `Boolean` return value, the correct syntax is:

----
(paramA: String, paramB: Number) -> Boolean
----

> For example, you can define a function that receives another function as an argument:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the following example, you define a function that receives another function as an argument:
```

.DataWeave Script
----
%dw 2.0
output application/json

fun applyIDsChange(ids: Array<Number>, changeTo: (Number) -> Number): Array<Number> = ???
----

> If you call the function `applyIDsChange` with a function that does not match the `changeTo` constraint `(Number) -> Number`, DataWeave throws a type-checking error.

Reviewer 2: Do we need another +?
```suggestion
If you call the function `applyIDsChange` with a function that does not match the `changeTo` constraint `(Number) -> Number`, DataWeave throws a type-checking error.
+
```

> For example, the following call works because `abs` is a function that takes a value of the `Number` type and returns a `Number`, which matches the `changeTo` parameter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, the following call works because `abs` is a function that takes a value of the `Number` type and returns a `Number`, which matches the `changeTo` parameter:
```

----
applyIDsChange([1,-6, 3, -8], abs)
----

> But this call fails because `sum` is a function that takes an Array and returns a Number, so it does not match our parameter constraint.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
But the following call fails because `sum` is a function that takes an Array and returns a Number, so it does not match the parameter constraint:
```

Reviewer: `Array` 
`Number`
backticks around the types has become more important

----
applyIDsChange([1,-6, 3, -8], sum)
----

> 

Reviewer 2: Break here

Reviewer 2: Resume

== Complex Types

> 

Reviewer 2: We should never have two titles or headings without text between them. If we need the container topic, than it should at a minimum list and summarize the subtopics, their relations to one another, and WHY your audience cares.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Complex types include the `Any` and `Nothing` types, the `Union` type, the `Intersection` type, and `Literal` types, each of which is named intuitively. 
```
"Use these when...."

=== Any and Nothing

> In some cases, you cannot enforce a restriction because the type accepts all the values. +

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In some cases, you cannot enforce a restriction because the type accepts either all values or no values:+
```

> * `Any` type accepts all possible values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `Any` accepts all possible values.
```
"Use this type when...."

> * `Nothing` type accepts no value, but it can be assigned to all the types. This type is not frequently used explicitly, but it is used by the type inference algorithm.

Reviewer 2: Please clarify how the `Nothing` type can be assigned to "all the types": a type assigned to a type?
Also, why is this special? Can no other (types?) be assigned to (all other types)?
"Use this type with inference algorithms"? Example?

=== Union Type

> The `Union` type is used to compose types. The syntax to define a `Union` type is:

Reviewer 2: You use this type to create other types or to join more than one type?
Please explain "compose".

----
TypeA | TypeB | ...
----

> The following example defines a variable with a constraint that accepts a value of type `String` or `Number`:

Reviewer 2: Where is `Union` in this examplel?

----
var age: String | Number = if (payload.allStrings) "32" else 32
----

A common pattern is to use `Null` type with a `Union` type to specify that a type accepts `null` as a value. In the following example, the variable `a` allows the expression `payload.foo` to return `null`.

----
var a: String| Null = payload.foo
----

> 

Reviewer 2: GLOBALLY replace "foo" per style ref.

=== Intersection Type

> The `Intersection` type intersects `Object` types. In this case, the intersection works as the concatenation (`++`) of object types.

Reviewer 2: Please define what "intersects" means in this context: creates an overlap?

Also...avoid using italic inline headings like the one following. Merge the version info into the text:
```suggestion
"Introduced in DataWeave 2.3.0 and supported by Mule 4.3 and later, the `Intersection` type intersects `Object` types. In this case, the intersection works as the concatenation (`++`) of object types.
```

> _Introduced in DataWeave 2.3.0. Supported by Mule 4.3 and later._

Reviewer 2: see above

> The syntax for `Intersection` type is:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The syntax for the `Intersection` type is:
```

----
TypeA & TypeB & ...
----

> In the following example, the `Intersection` concatenates the two `Object` types, resulting in the type `{name: String, lastName: String}`. The type is an open object that can have more key-value pairs. The variable accepts the value assigned to it:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the following example, `Intersection` concatenates the two `Object` types, resulting in the type `{name: String, lastName: String}`. The type is an open object that can accept additional key-value pairs. The variable accepts the value assigned to it:
```

----
var a: {name: String} & {lastName: String} = {name: "John", lastName: "Smith", age: 34}
----

> In the case of closed objects, it returns the concatenation of the object types but resuls in a closed object. +

Reviewer 2: To what does "it" refer: `Intersection`?

"resuls" > "results"

And are we really saying that in the instance of a closed object, the result is a closed object; isn't that obvious?

In the following example, the intersection results in the type `{|name: String, lastName: String|}`, which throws
an exception because a closed object does not accept an `Object` value if there are additional fields in the object (field `age`):

----
var a: {|name: String|} & {|lastName: String|} = {name: "John", lastName: "Smith", age: 34}
----

[[literal-types]]
=== Literal Types

> A literal type represents exactly one value. For example, the String value `"foo"` can be represented with the type `"foo"`.

Reviewer 2: String value or `String` value?

Reviewer 2: Please try to replace "foo" in examples....

> _Introduced in DataWeave 2.3.0. Supported by Mule 4.3 and later._

Reviewer 2: ditto prev. suggestion for incorporating into running narrative

> The following literal types have been added to the type system:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Mule 4.3 and later, the following literal types are included in the type system:
```

* `String` literal types
* `Number` literal types
* `Boolean` literal types

You can use literal types with `Union` types to declare a type as a finite set of allowed values. For example, the following type declarations are aliases of `Union` and literal types:

----
type Weekdays = "Monday" | "Tuesday" | "Wednesday" | "Thursday" | "Friday"
type Days = Weekdays | "Saturday" | "Sunday"
----

> In the following example, the variable only accepts a value of the literal types `404` and `500`. The type system ensures that the variable is one of those literal values:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the following example, the variable accepts a value only of the literal types `404` and `500`. The type system ensures that the variable is one of those literal values:
```

.DataWeave Script
----
%dw 2.0
output application/json

var errorStatusCode: 404 | 500 = payload.statusCode
----

> Function overloading enables you to define different behaviors based on the input argument's value:

Reviewer 2: Is this still about Literal types?
If not, we need a transition or new heading.
